# API Reference

Below APIs are from the exposed object of [@stitch/core](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/tree/HEAD/packages/core) . Before using them, you need to import the @stitch/core and boot it up (refer to the [Start your project with Stitch](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/2.Getting_Started/2.3.Start_your_project_with_Stitch.md)).

## stitch

```javascript
import stitch from '@stitch/core';
// ...
```

### stitch.config

Type: `(config: object, options?: { history?: RouterAdaptor }) => void`

Example:

```js
stitch.config(config, { history });
```

Config Stitch by applying the JSON object of config.

During the start process, Stitch will parse config, initialize [ConfigManager](#configmanager) , [ServiceManager](#servicemanager) and [AppManager](#appmanager) , as well as any internal components.

In addition, some external lib services will be loaded automatically if the service is marked as `"autoLoad": true` in config.

parameter history:
Add History instance to Stitch, for support control router in MFE App.
The History must be an instance which adopted the interface of [RouterAdaptor](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/6.Services/6.1.System_Service/6.1.2.Router_Service/index.md#routeradaptor-interface).

### stitch.start

Type: `() => Stitch`

Example:

```js
// Stitch as the provider needs to be bootstrapped before being used
stitch.start().then((instance) => {
  // do something subsequently
});
```

The method initializes all the manager components inside stitch and boots up all the available [System Service](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/6.Services/6.1.System_Service/index.md) and [Lib Services](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/6.Services/6.2.Lib_Service.md)

### stitch.getAppManager

Type: `() => AppManager`

Example

```js
const appManager = stitch.getAppManager();
```

Return [AppManager](#appmanager) instance.

### stitch.getConfigManager

Type: `() => ConfigManager`

Example

```js
const configManager = stitch.getConfigManager();
```

Return [ConfigManager](#configmanager) instance.

### stitch.getServiceManager

Type: `() => ServiceManager`

Example

```js
const serviceManager = stitch.getServiceManager();
```

Return [ServiceManager](#servicemanager) instance.

### stitch.setAppOptions

Type: `(appName: string, options: object) => void`

Example

```js
stitch.setAppOptions(payerManagement, { mode: 'IFrame' });
```

Programmable set the app config options. Unable to set the options after Stitch started. (shortcut of ConfigManager.[setAppOptions](#setappoptions))

### stitch.setServiceOptions

Type: `(serviceName: string, options: object) => void`

Example

```js
stitch.setServiceOptions(message_service, { disabled: true });
```

Programmable set the service config options. Unable to set the options after Stitch started. (shortcut of ConfigManager.[setServiceOptions](#setserviceoptions))

### stitch.setGlobalOptions

Type: `(options: object) => void`

Example

```js
stitch.setGlobalOptions({ disabledStitch: false });
```

Programmable set the Global config options. Unable to set the options after Stitch started. (shortcut of ConfigManager.[setGlobalOptions](#setglobaloptions))

### stitch.addService

Type: `(serviceName: string, instance: MFEService, options?: object) => void`

Register a customized service instance. Unable to set the options after Stitch started.(shortcut of ServiceManager.[addService](#addservice))

Example

```js
import UserProfileService from "@stitch/user-profile-service";
stitch.addService(UserProfileService.Name, new UserProfileService());
```

## renderApp/cleanApp

The Stitch also provides `renderApp()` and `cleanApp()` in pairs for consumers to mount/unmount the particular [MFA](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/5.MFE_App/5.1.Interface.md) onto/from the target dom in an API manner.

If you want to integrate Stitch in React component manner you can refer to the above section.

```js
import { renderApp, cleanApp } from '@stitch/core';
// ...
```

### renderApp

Type: `(dom: HTMLElement, appName: string) => void`

Example

```js
renderApp(dom, appName);
```

render MFA onto the given dom in terms of the given app name

### cleanApp

Type: `(dom: HTMLElement, appName: string) => void`

Example

```js
cleanApp(dom, appName);
```

remove the MFA from the given dom in terms of the given app name

## ConfigManager

Once the Stitch has bootup, you can use getConfigManager() to get a ConfigManager singleton instance and then use its APIs.

```js
const configManager = stitch.getConfigManager();

configManager.getEnv(config);
```

### getRawConfig

Type: `() => object`

Get the original raw config JSON

### updateConfig

Type: `(config: object) => void`

Update config JSON, will trigger internal config validation and transformation ( [validateConfig](#validateconfig)), and flush any existing config states.

### validateConfig

Type: `(config: object) => boolean`

- Validate the config is in good shape.
- Required fields are defined.
- The host is defined if the hostname is referenced in other sections.
- Host protocol, server, port, path comply with HTTP standards.
- Service is defined in lib if the service type is Lib.
- No duplicated lib names, app names, service names were detected. 

### setServiceOptions

Type: `(options: object) => void`

Programmable set the app config options. Unable to set the options after Stitch started.

### getServiceConfig

Type: `(serviceName: string) => ManagedServiceConfig`

- Get config for specified service.
- Service config is the data mostly defined in Config JSON, except `libUrl` is calculated and available automatically if the service type is `Lib`. ServiceManager uses the `libUrl` to load the service.
- Service config patches the default values if some field is not specified.

#### ManagedServiceConfig
```typescript
type ManagedServiceConfig = {
  name: string
  type: 'System' | 'Lib' | 'Customized'
  libName?: string
  libUrl?: string
  autoLoad?: boolean
  disabled: boolean
  protected: boolean
  options: object
}
```

### setAppOptions

Type: `(options: object) => void`

Programmable set the app config options. Unable to set the options after Stitch started.

### getAppConfig

Type: `(appName: string) => ManagedAppConfig`

- Get config for specified MFE App.
- App config is the data mostly defined in Config JSON, except some of the fields are appended with default values, or transformed to readable information, for example:
- `libUrl` is appended, with calculated full path URL this app is defined in. AppManager uses the `libUrl` to load the [MFE App](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/5.MFE_App/5.1.Interface.md).

Styles are properly transformed to readable information, collected from the styles section under lib.

#### ManagedAppConfig
```typescript
type ManagedAppConfig = {
  name: string
  libName: string
  libUrl: string
  mode: string
  routerName: string
  options: object
  styles: [{
    uniqueID: string
    name: string
    libName: string
    styleUrl: string
    autoLoad: boolean
  }]
}
```

### getAppName

Type: `(routerName: string) => string`

Get the name of the specific app, which uses the given routerName.

e.g. the `"routerName"` is set for MFE App in your config:

```json
{
  "libs": [{
    "apps": [{
      "name": "pending-inward-payments-summary",
      "routerName": ["pending-inward-payments"]
    }]
  }]
}
```

For example, your can get the routerName from react-router path, then use getAppName to get the appName for the AppHost.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Route } from 'react-router-dom';
import { get } from 'lodash';
import stitch from '@stitch/core';
import AppHost from '@stitch/react';

// ...

await stitch.start();

const configManager = stitch.getConfigManager();

// ...
  <Route
    path="/mfe/:routerName"
    component={(props) => (
      <AppHost appName={configManager.getAppName(get(props, 'match.params.routerName', ''))} />
    )}
  />
// ...
```

### getStyleConfig

Type: `(libName: string, styleName?: string) => ManagedStyleConfig[]`

- Get the styles config associated for a Lib. The response is an array.
- Style config is the data mostly defined in Config JSON, except `styleUrl` is calculated to aid availability automatically
- If specified the `styleName` parameter, will only return the matched styles config in array.

#### ManagedStyleConfig
```typescript
type ManagedStyleConfig = [
  {
    uniqueID: string
    name: string
    libName: string
    styleUrl: string
    autoLoad: boolean
  }
]
```

### getGlobalOptions

Type: `() => object`  

Get global options.

### setGlobalOptions

Type: `(options: object) => void`

Set global options.

### getOrgConfig

Type: `() => object`

Get org information in Config. Generally, use to identify the channel.

### getEnv

Type: `() => 'Dev' | 'Prod'`

Get the env config.

### getRouterPath

Type: `() => string`

Get the configurable router path.

## AppManager

Once the Stitch has bootup, you can use getAppManager() to get an AppManager singleton instance and then use its APIs.

```js
const appName = "payerManagement";
const appManager = stitch.getAppManager();
const appInstance = appManager.getApp(appName);
const currentState = appManager.getState(appName); // "Active"
const appConfig = appManager.getApp(appName);

forceInit(appName);
```

### getApp

Type: `(name: string) => Promise<MFEApp>`

Get an instance of the [MFE App](https://alm-github.systems.uk.hsbc/Net-UI/stitch/blob/HEAD/docs/5.MFE_App/5.1.Interface.md#mfeapp).

Return a Promise from where the success result is the MFE App instance, failed result is the error.

### getState

Type: `(name: string) => string`

Get MFE App state.

- Notdefined - MFE App with the specified name is not defined in config
- Notloaded - MFE App with the specified name is defined in config, but not loaded yet.
- Loaded - MFE App with the specified name is loaded and initialized, but not mounted
- Active - MFE App with the specified name is mounted to screen
- Inactive - MFE App with the specified name is unmounted

### getConfig

Type: `(name: string) => ManagedAppConfig`

Just a quick access method to get App config. We also could get AppConfig from Config Manager.

### forceInit

Type: `(name: string) => void`

Force to reinitialize the MFE App, by re-constructing the hostContext and injecting it.

## Service Object

A `<Service> ` object is the service module with **predefined life cycle hooks**. Aside the service's own implementation, life cycle hooks ensue **Stitch** framework properly integrate the service with the correct timing and essential context.

### `Service.require()`
Return the predefined list of sub-services required by the service  
Stitch uses this hook to ensure to prepare sub-services before this starting this services.
* **Parameters:**  none  
* **Returns:** `<Array.<String>>`  
An array of the name of the sub-services.

### `Service.start(hostContext)`
Start the service module.
Stitch invokes this hook **before** the service is instantiated and ready to use. It is asynchronous  
hostContext to which it is bound is passed
* **Parameters:** 
	* `hostContext` \<[HostContext](5.MFE_App/5.2.Host_Context)> the context under which this service is running
* **Returns:** `<Promise.<*>> `
Promise to indicates service starts successfully or fails

### `Service.stop()`
Stop the service module.
* **Parameters:**  none  
* **Returns:** none

### `Service.getStatus()`
Retrieve the service status.
* **Parameters:**  none  
* **Returns:** \<[Service_Status](#service-status)>  
Promise to indicates service starts successfully or fails

### `Service.createClient(type, [name])`
Instantiate a Client of the service module
* **Parameters:**
	* `type` `<String>`  could be '**app**', '**host**', '**service**'. Indicates whether the client is created for A MFA, the main application or its parent Service to use
	* `[name]`  `<String>` the Alias property name to access the client.
* **Returns:** `<MFEClientService>`
The service instance as client

### Service Attribute
The following attributes shares the same interface of [Service Config](3.Config_Schema#service-config) 

| Attribute | Type | Remark |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| name | `<String>` |     Service name |
| disabled | `<Boolean>` | True to exclude the service in the entire Framework |
| autoLoad | `<Boolean>` | Whether to load a **Library service** upon Stitch `start()` |
| protected | `<Boolean>` | Whether a service can be removed by `ServiceManger.removeService()` |

### Service Status
The following constants are meant for use for the status query of a service.

| Constant | Value | Remark |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| *To be provided* |    'stopped'      |     The service isnot running    |
| *To be provided* |    'starting'      |      The service is in the process of `start()`    |
| *To be provided* |    'started'      |       The service has been started  |

## ServiceManager

Once the Stitch has bootup, you can use `getServiceManager()` to retrive the serviceManager singleton instance to utilize it API to control all register **services**.

```javascript
const serviceName = "style_service";
const serviceManager = stitch.getServiceManager();
const serviceInstance = await serviceManager.getService(serviceName);
```

### `ServiceManager.getService(name)`
Return service module object specified by the name.  
It a **Library service** is not loaded (`autoLoad` set to false) and it is requested for the 1st time,  then it will be fetched from remote source
* **Parameters:**
	* name `<String>`
* **Returns:** \<Promise.\<[Service_Object](#service-object)>  
Promise of the service object, or rejected Promise of error occured
* **Example:**
```javascript
stitch.getServiceManager().getService('style_service')
```

### `addService(name, instance, [options])`
Register a **customized service** instance. 
* **Parameters:**
	* name `<String>`
	* instance \<[Service_Object](#service-object)> the Service instance prepared by Main Application
	* [options] \<[Service_Attribute](#service-attribute)>
* **Returns:** void
* **Error:**  
Error if adding an existing service  
Error if adding a service OTHER than Customized Service
Error if adding a service **AFTER** Stitch Starts
* **Example:**
```javascript
stitch.getServiceManager().addService('user_profile_service', userProfileInstance)
```

### `removeService(name)`
Remove a service instance with a specified name.
* **Parameters:**
	* name `<String>`
* **Returns:** void
* **Error:**  
Error if removing a protected service  
* **Example:**
```javascript
stitch.getServiceManager().removeService('user_profile_service')
```

### `getServices(filter)`
Return the list of service module objects against the filtering criteria.  filter could be a partial object of service config
It a **Library service** is matched,  is not loaded (`autoLoad` set to false) and it is requested for the 1st time,  then the process includes its fetching action from remote source as one of its resolve condition
* **Parameters:**
	* filter \<[Service_Attribute](#service-attribute) \| function> filter can be an service attribute object to filter against one or more attribute, or a function which returns `<boolean>` to perform more sophisticated filter
* **Returns:** \<Promise.\<Array.\<[Service_Object](#service-object)\>\>\>  
Promise of the list of service objects, or rejected Promise of error occurred
* **Example:**
```javascript
stitch.getServiceManager().getServices({ protected: true }) // get all the active protected services
```
